the Israeli Army has stepped up its
operations in Northern Gaza pounding the
area with air strikes and encircling
Gaza City Israel Defense Forces are
expected to enter the city soon they've
been preparing for urban Warfare with
the islamist militant group Hamas which
is likely to lead to a sharp rise in
casualties the Israeli troops have
already severed Gava Gaza City from the
south of the territory now in an
interview with us broadcaster ABC News
is Israeli Prime Minister Benyamin
Netanyahu said that Israel will take
responsibility for the overall security
of Gaza after the war those who don't
want to uh continue the way of Kamas it
certainly is not I think Israel will
for an indefinite period will have the
overall uh security responsibility
because we've seen what happens when we
don't have it when we don't have that
security responsibility what we have is
the eruption of Hamas Terror on a scale
that we could couldn't imagine well for
more I'm joined Now by DW correspondent
Ben fulan who's in Jerusalem good
morning Ben good to see you so as we've
just heard Israel's primee Minister said
that the country will take uh
responsibility over the Gaza Strip after
the war what does he mean by
that well responsibility is one word and
occupation is a very different one uh we
know that Israeli troops withdrew back
in 2005 we also know uh what hamus
reaction would be a senior official in
Lebanon saying it would never accept a
puppet government uh you also have to
remember that the right-wing uh
religious government of Benjamin
Netanyahu is under fire at the moment uh
Netanyahu himself uh a dead man walking
as he's been described his career sounds
like it's already over uh protests here
against him and his government only
continue so there's certainly a lot of
pressure over him that would bring into
question whether or not Israel does have
any Authority uh when it comes to the PA
though the Palestinian Authority and
these have been the suggestions so far
by uh US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin uh it has very little authority
and autonomy over parts of the West Bank
at the moment and to put it in place to
govern the Gaza Strip would also be
highly problematic there has been talk
of a group of uh several governments
coming together and international
agencies to perhaps govern the Gaza
Strip and uh provide security but that
is also under question now Ben uh the
Israel Defense Forces are intensifying
their focus on Gaza City did the IDF
give much detail why specifically there
and with what
aim well Gaza City is the biggest city
it's expected to be the stronghold of
haras no one knows for sure exactly
where they are in their tunnels uh but
the IDF or Israeli Defense Forces have
managed to separate they say the hamama
strongholds of the north and south and
are now operating at full force uh there
have been new plans uh approved by the
health Ministry but uh if this next
phase is to begin and troops uh start
entering Gaza City according to media
that could happen soon then uh this
would mean Fierce Urban Warfare and
could mean High casualties on both sides
uh we're talking about high casualties
as well as far as civilians go with
hundreds of thousands staying a
humanitarian Corridor remaining open but
Israeli troops only able to secure part
of that the health Ministry overnight
saying that another 292 people have been
killed hits on hospitals and more Hamas
Rockets flying towards Israel Ben
briefly if you could Israel also o says
it's open to pauses in Gaza what more
can you tell
us uh this was mentioned in an interview
the White House also saying that this
has been mentioned in talks between
Netanyahu and Biden but a complete
ceasefire is totally off the table all
hostages would have to be released for
that and Netanyahu would like to see all
hostages released even if there was some
sort of temporary Tru of types uh the
pressure though mounts and a lot of
pressure coming not just from abroad but
also locally because of the hostages
held and the hostage families putting
the pressure on Netanyahu thanks Ben DW
correspondent Ben fulan reporting from
Jerusalem the Hamas controlled Gaza
Health Ministry says that more than
10,000 people have been killed by
Israeli strikes since they began their
campaign a month ago many gazans have
been heading to the south of the strip
in the hope of avoiding Israeli bombing
but nowhere in the territory is truly
safe in Gaza the human cost of this
conflict keeps on mounting as the small
strip of land continues to be pummeled
the Israel Defense Forces say they
opened a humanitarian Corridor this
allowed Palestinians to evacuate the
north where the bombardments are
heavier though it seems that nowhere in
the strip is truly
safe an Israeli air strike hit a
residential building in a densely
populated District of khun in southern
Gaza they are all children not a single
adult all children the whole building
collaps on them these are your goals
Netanyahu may God take revenge on
you hundreds of thousands of displaced
garans are now living in makeshift
shelters in the south of the strip as
Israel intensifies its
bombardments for this Hospital hital
employee just one missile strike took
everything
away I was working my shift at the
hospital when the casualties started
arriving to my shock I saw among those
marted were my wife meon as well as our
four
children the youngest of which was 8
months
old it's an all too familiar story for
many living in the Gaza Strip the war
between Israel and Hamas shows no sign
of letting
up and it's the people on the ground who
are paying the heaviest price of
all un Secretary General Antonio gutes
has again called for a ceasefire and
voiced concern over violations of
international humanitarian law in the
monthlong
conflict Gaza is becoming a graveyard
for
children
ground operations by the Israel Defense
Forces and continued bombardment are
eitting civilians hospitals refugee
camps mosques church and un facilities
including
shelters No One Is
Safe at the same time Hamas and other
militants use civilians as human Shields
and continue to launch rockets
indiscriminately towards
Israel well for more we're going to talk
now to Toby fricker a communication
specialist from UNICEF currently in the
Jordanian Capital am man good morning
Toby and thanks for joining us on DW
news so we just heard there from the UN
Chief Antonio gues saying that nowhere
is safe in Gaza how are people coping
there with such a dire
situation yeah that's right I mean we
can safely say you there is no safe
place for for children for civilians in
in the Gaza Strip right now um we know
know that you know around 1.5 million
people have fled or to the southern area
You' have been displaced in different
areas particularly in the southern part
so what that means is you have many many
people in what was already a densely
populated area now living in in shelters
you're very very closely together um so
the conditions are extremely difficult
in terms of accessing Safe Water
Sanitation hygiene you know these issues
that compound the other issues which is
staying safe trying to stay safe you
know day in day out and that stress of
of for children particularly of going
through this on a 24-hour basis and and
that's why UNICEF why the UN SEC General
as you heard you calling for this
immediate humanitarian seasar and also
to them be able to scale up the amount
of life saving Aid that we can bring
into the Gaza Strip but importantly then
move around you know in a in a safe way
Toby the UN Secretary General also warn
that Gaza is becoming a graveyard for
children it's a truly horrifying image
do we we know how many children have
been
killed yeah I mean well if you look at
the reported numbers of more than 4,000
children who have been killed you know
and many many many more uh injured then
saying it's becoming a graveyard for
children is you know we can say that I
mean the numbers are are horrific um and
and again that's why the protection of
children the protection of civilians is
so important as the statement there was
a joint statement with uh un heads and
Civil Society you know saying enough is
enough we're now you know for a month
now we've had this same day in day out
this horrific bombardments you know we
still have children civilians held
hostage inside the Gaza Strip who need
to be immediately released as well and
you have Rockets flying into Israel
traumatizing people there as well so
this needs to stop now and that and
that's why the UN SEC General's been
speaking out again and that's why the
un's coming together many others to to
keep calling for this humanitarian
ceasefire Communications were restored
in G on Monday after being cut again how
has the lack of communications affected
people's
lives yeah the lack of communication is
is is a massive impact on on on children
on families inside the Gaza so we've
heard from our staff members when it was
reconnected you know how isolated and
even more scared they feel you know they
they they're then removed from family
members within the Gaza Strip they can't
contact they don't know how they are uh
when people need urgent care they can't
call for that support for ambulances to
move around and then also from a
humanitarian assistance perspective of
course it's extremely difficult to
coordinate Aid I mean you you can't when
you don't have any communication um so
when those lines are cut when there is
no communication Network it's extremely
difficult for humanitarian workers but
also ex extremely scary if it can be
even more scary for families living
inside the Gip who are completely
isolated now Israeli military uh have
have said that it surrounded Gaza City
and it's preparing for expected ground
battles how has your organization been
preparing for
this yeah I mean we're massively
massively concerned about the northern
part of the Gaza Strip I mean if you can
talk about one specific part now of the
northern part is even more dangerous
let's say than other areas because we
have many many families many children
many civilians who who are trapped in
the northern part of the Gaza Strip so
we're hugely concerned because it's not
just the the safety but also the access
to particularly to Safe Water uh to food
to medical supplies you know which were
already extremely low and now we're
massively massively concerned because
also for us to work there as
humanitarians it's it's it's almost
impossible um so this is a huge which is
again why we need space you know this
humanitarian Seaside to then be able to
support people particularly inside the
northern part of Gaza
Strip thanks Toby Toby fricker from
UNICEF joining us from am
man I'm joined Now by Jonathan Spire
Middle East expert and author in
Jerusalem welcome to DW news Jonathan
what do you make of Benjamin netanyahu's
remarks about taking responsibility for
the overall security of
Gaza well it's been the stated position
of the government of for a while that
the goal of its war effort in the Gaza
Strip is to uh bring down to collapse
the Hamas government uh in Gaza the one
which of course launched the atrocities
against Israeli civilians on October 7th
it's not been so clear until now what
Israel intended to as a successor
authority to uh the uh Hamas Authority
and I think from netanyahu's remarks
it's become clear that what we'll be
talking about if indeed of course Israel
achieves its Mission its stated mission
in the Gaza Strip will be a combination
something like what exist in the West
Bank I would suggest of a Palestinian
Authority of some kind or another
governing authority of some kind but
with u a continued Israeli security
presence and commitment within the Gaza
Strip so that's the way that I would
interpret netanyahu's
remarks yeah now Netanyahu also says
he's open to pauses in Gaza fighting for
Aid do you think that's because of
pressure from the United
States very possibly I think that there
is a a sort of gamut of opinion right
now if uh the UNSC was discussing I
think yesterday the issue of ceasefires
and of course uh the position of some of
the members there China I believe and
others was for a an open-ended what they
call humanitarian uh ceasefire the
Americans Administration is call calling
for what it calls humanitarian Paws
that's to say a ceasefire of a few days
I think W Netanyahu is clearly
positioning to do is to say well Israel
is not necessarily opposed to very brief
tactical pauses but I guess what the
government of Israel will be trying hard
to convey is that Israel is very
seriously committed to the military
Mission which it has set itself which to
reiterate is to bring down the Hamas
Authority from that point of view a long
a ceasefire certainly or even a long
pause allowing Hamas to regroup and
requip its Fighters would very much not
be on the agenda so yes I think that the
prime minister of Israel is seeking to
sort of position himself in order to
continue to advance Israel's agenda and
intentions without risking uh you know a
rift in a certain sense or a decline in
a certain sense in the currently close
relations between Israel and the US
Administration now Jonathan um in the
case that um Israel does take
responsibility for the overall security
of Gaza um Talk us through some of the
major challenges I'm assuming we're
talking about here that Israel would
face in that that uh if that were to
take
place first of all I think it's clear
it's important to note the distinction
inside in the PR's words we're talking
about security uh responsibility that's
to say the Israel Defense Forces would
retain its capacity to act against
similar efforts by Hamas or Islamic
Jihad to murder Israeli civilians as is
their stated goal of course I don't
think it means that Israel would be
wanting to take on political
responsibility which does then of course
introduce very much a a challenge for
Israel and indeed I would suggest for
the International Community which is who
then in fact would rule Gaza would it be
the Palestinian Authority of rala
notably uh secretary Anthony blinkin was
recently meeting with mhmad abas in rala
but the sense seems to be that he would
only accept any return in return for
diplomatic concessions which might be
difficult to find would it be some
combination of perhaps Arab forces and
countries that have been noted the
Emirates Egypt Morocco even and these
are all things that have appeared in
media in recent days some people have
suggested that Muhammad dlan the gazan
former gazan strongman today a resident
of United Arab Emirates and close to the
authorities in Abu Dhabi might be able
to play some role so yeah I think there
are very very major question marks over
the political and administrative future
of Gaza if indeed the Kamas authorities
brought down I think what Netanyahu is
doing is he's saying well bottom line
whatever the future is it should be
understood that Israeli forces will uh
intend to maintain freedom of action in
Gaza against those who would harm
Israeli
civilians thanks Jonathan Jonathan Spire
mid least expert and author joining us
from
Jerusalem thanks very
much